Add account migration guide (#3213)
matrix-org/matrix.org: content/docs/advanced/account_migration/_index.md

- If the room's existing history is *not* visible to new joiners prior to joining,
  then your new account will not be able to show you old messages despite having
  an old account that can.
  If that history is relevant to you, consider exporting the room history from
  your old account.

Of course you can always decide to only migrate a subset of rooms from your old
account for a little spring cleaning.

## Speeding things up

You will be sending a lot of invites with the old account and join a lot of
rooms with the new account.
Matrix by default limits how often an account can run different types of actions
to prevent abuse, including inviting and joining.

We suggest asking the admins of both your old and new homeserver to disable or
raise your rate limits temporarily to speed up the process significantly, if
possible.
Otherwise you might be looking at hours of waiting, depending on the amount of
conversations you participate in.

## Tools

The process of inviting and joining can be very tedious if you are migrating more
than just a handful of rooms.
Resourceful community members have created multiple tools over the years to
meet each of their individual requirements.

> The easiest to use tool ???

Author: todo

+++
title = "Account Migration"
template = "docs/with_menu.html"
weight = 100

[extra]
updated = "2026-04-06T13:55:00Z"
authors = ["HarHarLinks", "Website & Content WG", "Matrix Stammtisch Aachen"]
+++

It is possible that it becomes necessary to migrate from one account to another.
For example you might be looking into [switching providers](@/docs/communities/switching-providers/_index.md) because you tried Matrix out by joining matrix.org and
have decided to start your own homeserver, or perhaps the homeserver currently
hosting your account is shutting down.
Maybe you are just looking to change your Matrix user ID but staying on the
same server.

Unfortunately there is no first class support for this in the Matrix protocol yet.
The following guide hopes to support you to make the transition as smooth as possible.

## What to expect

The goal of migrating to a new account is create a new account and then transfer

> all the conversations you are participating in to it, optionally removing the old account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of migrating to a new account is to create it, transfer all your current conversations, and optionally remove the old account.
```

  it will never be able to join that room.
- Some homeservers might also implement other measures to block other servers,
  e.g. [ACL-bans](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.18/client-server-api/#server-access-control-lists-acls-for-rooms)
  or via [custom policies](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.18/client-server-api/#policy-servers).

Of course you can always decide to only migrate a subset of rooms from your old
account for a little spring cleaning.

If you are the admin of some communities,
make sure to also read our [transferring ownership](@/docs/communities/switching-providers/_index.md#transferring-ownership) guide.

## Speeding things up

You will be sending a lot of invites with the old account and join a lot of
rooms with the new account.
Matrix by default limits how often an account can run different types of actions
to prevent abuse, including inviting and joining.

We suggest asking the admins of both your old and new homeserver to disable or
raise your rate limits temporarily to speed up the process significantly, if
possible.
Otherwise you might be looking at hours of waiting, depending on the amount of

> conversations you participate in.

Reviewer 2: we could
A. point to https://element-hq.github.io/synapse/latest/admin_api/user_admin_api.html#override-ratelimiting-for-users
and
B. mention also https://element-hq.github.io/synapse/latest/usage/configuration/config_documentation.html#rc_joins and https://element-hq.github.io/synapse/latest/usage/configuration/config_documentation.html#rc_invites

i currently test my account migration with option B. i should be able to provide some sensible values for that option.
